all right this is much new and here is
another middlegame
training video I did in the past 20
videos with middle kind positions and I
decided just to do a few more now so
this is let's say day 21 of the
middlegame training we are continuing
and in this position it's black to move
and I would like you to pause the video
sorry to pause the video and think about
what you would like to do with black
here what would you play what would be
your plan what would you like to achieve
in this position take about 10 or 15
minutes to have a good look at the
position and when you make a decision
about what to move then continue
watching the video and I will explain
you how this game continued alright so
you can pause the video now and we'll
continue in a moment
all right so what's happening here
Black has clearly a better position here
because of the control over the C file
this C file is absolutely controlled by
black there is nothing why it can do to
gain control over this open file now the
question is how to exploit this probably
you thought about two different moves I
think those two moves are the two most
important in this position one of them
is Queen 2x t3 and the other one is
before and perhaps remove more passive
move like Bishop to d6 would improve the
position also a bit but not really very
very actively let's have a look at b4
first in the game by the way Queen takes
d3 was played but let's first have a
look at what happens if you play d4 here
with the idea of sort of capturing on a3
and then have
this week born on a three that we can
attack later here why to could take on
c4 with the Queen and after rook takes
Queen then taken before and if we take
back with the bishop attacking the rook
on T to work simply moves to e2
now the problem in this position is that
it's very difficult for black to attack
this B to pawn because the white rook is
on this second rank so he is controlling
this e2 square now if we compare this
position with what happens in the game
you will understand why Queen takes d3
is such a much better move Quint xt3
rook takes t3 now we have the white rook
not longer on the second rank the game
continued here with before but of course
group to see to immediately also as
possible also a very good move
if the idea of over root 2 c2 by the
waist not only to attack me too it's
also to have a threat of advancing the F
bone so the bishop can go to h4 with
threats against f2 so if here for
example before is played by the Y to to
save this B troop on then immediately f4
is very strong threatening Bishop to h4
winning piece here they pinned Bishop on
f2 and if white tries to save this by
moving this King for example to f1 or PG
one then we simply win a home only for
right F takes e4 take only for in the
table form we have own a pawn so that
means that
after rook to c2 before it's not the
best move and it's better for Y to take
actually here on d5 take only five and
after retaking on d5 then play before
because now if five doesn't win a pawn
later on money for but still still Black
has a better position after Bishop to d6
for example followed by Bishop to f4 and
perhaps Bishop to c1 combining an attack
against a three but let's return to the
game because that's actually the most
instructive thing here to do is this is
the position after rook takes T 3 so we
trade now here b4 was played by black
and after a takes before Bishop takes
before white took on d5 notice that this
bishop of before is controlling d2 so
it's impossible for white to return to
the second rank to defend c2 and V 2 so
here white took it takes d5 it takes d5
and now we move this rook to e3 with the
idea of still defending the second rank
but it's actually too late because black
plays rook to c2 and here in this
position white resigned
it's impossible to save this B to pawn
and without the b2 pawn after it falls
then the a porn becomes a very dangerous
weapon there is no way to stop this bone
from promoting so what happened in this
game actually is that I'm going to
return out to the initial position right
there what happened here is that black
was very well aware of where the
weaknesses were of white this own v2 and
it was aware of the control of the C
file and how important it would be to be
able to place a roof on the
second-ranked to attack b2 and also this
f2 bishop and he achieved this by
trading Queens Queen takes b3 group text
e3 the first step is achieved
now after b4 8x before Bishop takes
before there is no way for white to
return to the second rank so traded one
bond here not the root 3 3 root 2 c2 is
the winning move there is nothing white
can do to defend his position
by the way this game was played in 1960
and the layer with the black pieces is
Mikhail Botvinnik the famous Grand
Master was playing against the Alfred
turn-offs key in live C 19 1960 alright
so I hope you found this an instructive
example and I'm planning to do some more
of these middle positions because I find
that this is really very useful to do to
have a look at Millikin positions and
try to find a correct plan so this is
actually one of the most important
things in our chests practice to improve
our middle lane all right I hope you
enjoy this one and I'll see you next
time goodbye